content/docs/htmx/configuration.md, before:

---
title: "Configuration"
description: ""
summary: ""
date: 2024-02-05T12:11:27-05:00
lastmod: 2024-02-05T12:11:27-05:00
draft: false
menu:
  docs:
    htmx:
      parent: ""
      identifier: "configuration-9be46cbb530cd63819776bc374ed5c77"
weight: 100
toc: true
seo:
  title: "" # custom title (optional)
  description: "" # custom description (recommended)
  canonical: "" # custom canonical URL (optional)
  noindex: false # false (default) or true
---

This document provides a comprehensive guide on configuring HTMX within your application.

{{< callout context="note" title="Note" icon="info-circle" >}}
The configuration portion or Rizzy was constructed based on HTMX head configuration.  You can find more information about HTMX head configuration on the official [Htmx documentation site](https://htmx.org/docs/#config).
{{< /callout >}}

## Customizing HTMX Configuration

### Adding HTMX Configuration in Program.cs

In `Program.cs`, you can add custom HTMX configurations using the `AddHtmx()` method. You can also add named configurations for your app. Here's an example:

```csharp
using Rizzy.Htmx;

builder.Services.AddHtmx(config =>
{
  config.SelfRequestsOnly = true;
});

// Add an alternate named configuration
builder.Services.Configure<HtmxConfig>("articles", config =>
{
	config.SelfRequestsOnly = true;
	config.GlobalViewTransitions = true;
});    
```

The first call creates a default configuration, while the second call creates a named configuration using the configuration name "articles".

### Setting Configuration in HTML

To include configurations inside the `<head>` tag of your HTML document, use the `<HtmxConfigHeadOutlet/>` component:

```html
<HtmxConfigHeadOutlet/>
```

Named configurations can also be specified as a parameter:

```html
<HtmxConfigHeadOutlet Configuration="articles"/>
```

## HTMX Configuration Properties

Here is a description of the HTMX configuration properties that can be customized for your application:

| Property                 | Description                                                                                          |
|--------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| HistoryEnabled           | Enables history tracking.                                                                            |
| HistoryCacheSize         | Sets the size of the history cache.                                                                  |
| RefreshOnHistoryMiss     | Determines whether to refresh the page on history misses.                                             |
| DefaultSwapStyle         | Sets the default swap style.                                                                         |
| DefaultSwapDelay         | Sets the default swap delay.                                                                         |
| DefaultSettleDelay       | Sets the default settle delay.                                                                       |
| IncludeIndicatorStyles   | Specifies whether to include indicator styles.                                                        |
| IndicatorClass           | Sets the class for indicators.                                                                       |
| RequestClass             | Sets the class for requests.                                                                         |
| AddedClass               | Sets the class for added elements.                                                                    |
| SettlingClass            | Sets the class for settling elements.                                                                 |
| SwappingClass            | Sets the class for swapping elements.                                                                 |
| AllowEval                | Specifies whether to allow eval.                                                                      |
| AllowScriptTags          | Specifies whether to allow script tags.                                                               |
| InlineScriptNonce        | Sets the nonce for inline scripts.                                                                    |
| InlineStyleNonce         | Sets the nonce for inline styles.                                                                    |
| GenerateScriptNonce      | If true, will utilize an IRizzyNonceProvider instance to generate script nonces for CSP policies.    |
| GenerateStyleNonce       | If true, will utilize an IRizzyNonceProvider instance to generate style nonces for CSP policies.    |
| AttributesToSettle       | Specifies attributes to settle during the settling phase.                                             |
| UseTemplateFragments     | Specifies whether to use HTML template tags for parsing content.                                       |
| WsReconnectDelay         | Sets the WebSocket reconnect delay.                                                                  |
| WsBinaryType             | Sets the type of binary data received over WebSocket.                                                 |
| DisableSelector          | Sets the selector for disabling elements.                                                             |
| WithCredentials          | Specifies whether to allow cross-site Access-Control requests with credentials.                        |
| Timeout                  | Sets the request timeout.                                                                            |
| ScrollBehavior           | Sets the behavior for boosted links on page transitions.                                              |
| DefaultFocusScroll       | Specifies whether the focused element should be scrolled into view.                                    |
| GetCacheBusterParam      | Specifies whether to include a cache-busting parameter in GET requests.                                |
| GlobalViewTransitions    | Specifies whether to use the View Transition API when swapping in new content.                         |
| MethodsThatUseUrlParams  | Specifies methods to encode parameters in the URL.                                                    |
| SelfRequestsOnly         | Specifies whether to allow only AJAX requests to the same domain as the current document.             |
| IgnoreTitle              | Specifies whether to ignore the title of the document when a title tag is found in new content.       |
| ScrollIntoViewOnBoost    | Specifies whether the boosted element should be scrolled into view.                                   |


## Conclusion

By following this documentation, you can effectively configure HTMX in your library according to your application's requirements.

Commit message:

docs: Update configuration guide and add request handling
Updated the 'Configuration' document to include a more detailed guide on setting up and configuring HTMX within an application. The update includes steps for installing the `Rizzy.Htmx` NuGet package using both Visual Studio and .NET CLI.

Additionally, a new document titled 'Request and Response Handling' has been added. This document provides comprehensive information on how to handle HTTP requests and responses in interactive web applications using Rizzy.Htmx. It covers topics such as detecting HTMX requests, crafting dynamic responses, and practical examples of dynamic form submission.

content/docs/htmx/configuration.md, after:

---
title: "Getting Started"
description: ""
summary: ""
date: 2024-02-05T12:11:27-05:00
lastmod: 2024-02-05T12:11:27-05:00
draft: false
menu:
  docs:
    htmx:
      parent: ""
      identifier: "configuration-9be46cbb530cd63819776bc374ed5c77"
weight: 100
toc: true
seo:
  title: "" # custom title (optional)
  description: "" # custom description (recommended)
  canonical: "" # custom canonical URL (optional)
  noindex: false # false (default) or true
---

This document provides a comprehensive guide on setting up and configuring HTMX within your application.

To add the `Rizzy.Htmx` NuGet package to your project, follow these steps:

## Installation

### **Install the NuGet Package**

You can add the `Rizzy.Htmx` NuGet package using either Visual Studio or the .NET CLI.

### **Using Visual Studio**
1. Open your project in Visual Studio.
2. Right-click on the **Dependencies** node in the Solution Explorer.
3. Select **Manage NuGet Packages**.
4. In the **NuGet Package Manager**, search for `Rizzy.Htmx`.
5. Click **Install**.

### **Using the .NET CLI**
If you prefer using the command line, navigate to your project directory and run the following command:

```bash
dotnet add package Rizzy.Htmx
```

## Customizing HTMX Configuration

{{< callout context="note" title="Note" icon="info-circle" >}}
The configuration portion or Rizzy was constructed based on HTMX head configuration.  You can find more information about HTMX head configuration on the official [Htmx documentation site](https://htmx.org/docs/#config).
{{< /callout >}}

### Adding HTMX Configuration in Program.cs

In `Program.cs`, you can add custom HTMX configurations using the `AddHtmx()` method. You can also add named configurations for your app. Here's an example:

```csharp
using Rizzy.Htmx;

builder.Services.AddHtmx(config =>
{
  config.SelfRequestsOnly = true;
});

// Add an alternate named configuration
builder.Services.Configure<HtmxConfig>("articles", config =>
{
	config.SelfRequestsOnly = true;
	config.GlobalViewTransitions = true;
});    
```

The first call creates a default configuration, while the second call creates a named configuration using the configuration name "articles".

### Setting Configuration in HTML

To include configurations inside the `<head>` tag of your HTML document, use the `<HtmxConfigHeadOutlet/>` component:

```html
<HtmxConfigHeadOutlet/>
```

Named configurations can also be specified as a parameter:

```html
<HtmxConfigHeadOutlet Configuration="articles"/>
```

## HTMX Configuration Properties

Here is a description of the HTMX configuration properties that can be customized for your application:

| Property                 | Description                                                                                          |
|--------------------------|------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| HistoryEnabled           | Enables history tracking.                                                                            |
| HistoryCacheSize         | Sets the size of the history cache.                                                                  |
| RefreshOnHistoryMiss     | Determines whether to refresh the page on history misses.                                             |
| DefaultSwapStyle         | Sets the default swap style.                                                                         |
| DefaultSwapDelay         | Sets the default swap delay.                                                                         |
| DefaultSettleDelay       | Sets the default settle delay.                                                                       |
| IncludeIndicatorStyles   | Specifies whether to include indicator styles.                                                        |
| IndicatorClass           | Sets the class for indicators.                                                                       |
| RequestClass             | Sets the class for requests.                                                                         |
| AddedClass               | Sets the class for added elements.                                                                    |
| SettlingClass            | Sets the class for settling elements.                                                                 |
| SwappingClass            | Sets the class for swapping elements.                                                                 |
| AllowEval                | Specifies whether to allow eval.                                                                      |
| AllowScriptTags          | Specifies whether to allow script tags.                                                               |
| InlineScriptNonce        | Sets the nonce for inline scripts.                                                                    |
| InlineStyleNonce         | Sets the nonce for inline styles.                                                                    |
| GenerateScriptNonce      | If true, will utilize an IRizzyNonceProvider instance to generate script nonces for CSP policies.    |
| GenerateStyleNonce       | If true, will utilize an IRizzyNonceProvider instance to generate style nonces for CSP policies.    |
| AttributesToSettle       | Specifies attributes to settle during the settling phase.                                             |
| UseTemplateFragments     | Specifies whether to use HTML template tags for parsing content.                                       |
| WsReconnectDelay         | Sets the WebSocket reconnect delay.                                                                  |
| WsBinaryType             | Sets the type of binary data received over WebSocket.                                                 |
| DisableSelector          | Sets the selector for disabling elements.                                                             |
| WithCredentials          | Specifies whether to allow cross-site Access-Control requests with credentials.                        |
| Timeout                  | Sets the request timeout.                                                                            |
| ScrollBehavior           | Sets the behavior for boosted links on page transitions.                                              |
| DefaultFocusScroll       | Specifies whether the focused element should be scrolled into view.                                    |
| GetCacheBusterParam      | Specifies whether to include a cache-busting parameter in GET requests.                                |
| GlobalViewTransitions    | Specifies whether to use the View Transition API when swapping in new content.                         |
| MethodsThatUseUrlParams  | Specifies methods to encode parameters in the URL.                                                    |
| SelfRequestsOnly         | Specifies whether to allow only AJAX requests to the same domain as the current document.             |
| IgnoreTitle              | Specifies whether to ignore the title of the document when a title tag is found in new content.       |
| ScrollIntoViewOnBoost    | Specifies whether the boosted element should be scrolled into view.                                   |


## Conclusion

By following this documentation, you can effectively configure HTMX in your library according to your application's requirements.
