content/docs/htmx/request.md, before:

---
title: "Request"
description: ""
summary: ""
date: 2024-02-05T12:10:20-05:00
lastmod: 2024-02-05T12:10:20-05:00
draft: false
menu:
  docs:
    parent: ""
    identifier: "request-73afe35878d725325150eb4a35856a4d"
weight: 200
toc: true
seo:
  title: "" # custom title (optional)
  description: "" # custom description (recommended)
  canonical: "" # custom canonical URL (optional)
  noindex: false # false (default) or true
---
The `HtmxRequest` class provides properties to determine characteristics of a request triggered by HTMX within an ASP.NET application. This class helps in identifying whether a request is made via HTMX, if it is boosted, part of a history restore, or contains specific HTMX-related headers such as the current URL, target, trigger name, trigger id, and prompt responses.

{{< callout context="note" title="Note" icon="info-circle" >}}
The HtmxRequest class was constructed based on HTMX usage of Request headers.  You can find more information about HTMX request headers on the official [Htmx documentation site](https://htmx.org/reference/#request_headers).
{{< /callout >}}

## IsHtmx

Determines if the current request was triggered by HTMX.

**Example**

```csharp
bool isHtmxRequest = ViewContext.Htmx.Request.IsHtmx;
```

## IsBoosted

Checks whether the current request was initiated via an element using `hx-boost`.

**Example**

```csharp
bool isBoosted = ViewContext.Htmx.Request.IsBoosted;
```

## IsHistoryRestore

Identifies if the request is an HTMX history restore request.

**Example**

```csharp
bool isHistoryRestore = ViewContext.Htmx.Request.IsHistoryRestore;
```

## CurrentURL

Gets the current URL from the browser as triggered by the HTMX request.

**Example**

```csharp
Uri? currentUrl = ViewContext.Htmx.Request.CurrentURL;
```

## Target

Retrieves the `id` of the target element from the HTMX request if it exists.

**Example**

```csharp
string? targetId = ViewContext.Htmx.Request.Target;
```

## TriggerName

Obtains the `name` of the element that triggered the HTMX request if available.

**Example**

```csharp
string? triggerName = ViewContext.Htmx.Request.TriggerName;
```

## Trigger

Gets the `id` of the element that initiated the HTMX request if present.

**Example**

```csharp
string? triggerId = ViewContext.Htmx.Request.Trigger;
```

## Prompt

Retrieves the user response to an `hx-prompt` from the HTMX request, if any.

**Example**

```csharp
string? promptResponse = ViewContext.Htmx.Request.Prompt;
```

Commit message:

docs: Expand HtmxRequest and HtmxResponse sections
Added detailed instructions on how to work with `HtmxRequest` and `HtmxResponse` classes in the documentation. This includes creating new instances, accessing them through the `RzViewContext` service, and using them within a controller.

style: Update hugo_stats.json

Updated HTML tags and class names in hugo_stats.json for better tracking of used elements and styles. Added new examples, removed unused ones, and included additional headers for improved organization.

content/docs/htmx/request.md, after:

---
title: "Request"
description: ""
summary: ""
date: 2024-02-05T12:10:20-05:00
lastmod: 2024-02-05T12:10:20-05:00
draft: false
menu:
  docs:
    parent: ""
    identifier: "request-73afe35878d725325150eb4a35856a4d"
weight: 200
toc: true
seo:
  title: "" # custom title (optional)
  description: "" # custom description (recommended)
  canonical: "" # custom canonical URL (optional)
  noindex: false # false (default) or true
---
The `HtmxRequest` class provides properties to determine characteristics of a request triggered by HTMX within an ASP.NET application. This class helps in identifying whether a request is made via HTMX, if it is boosted, part of a history restore, or contains specific HTMX-related headers such as the current URL, target, trigger name, trigger id, and prompt responses.

{{< callout context="note" title="Note" icon="info-circle" >}}
The HtmxRequest class was constructed based on HTMX usage of Request headers.  You can find more information about HTMX request headers on the official [Htmx documentation site](https://htmx.org/reference/#request_headers).
{{< /callout >}}

## Working With HtmxRequest

`HtmxRequest` only has a dependency on HttpContext, so you can use it in any scoped dependency service that has access to HttpContext.  To manually create an HtmxRequest object you need only to create a new instance of the class as follows:

```csharp
var request = new HtmxRequest(httpContext);
```

For the purposes of the examples in this guide, we will be using an instance of HtmxResponse that is available within the `RzViewContext` service. The `RzViewContext` service is injected into any RzController instance and is made available as the ViewContext property.  The ViewContext is also available as both a cascaded parameter to any View rendered from the controller.

The `HtmxResponse` object is accessible from the controller property:

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response
```

All of the proceeding examples will reflect usage of the ViewContext approach.


## IsHtmx

Determines if the current request was triggered by HTMX.

**Example**

```csharp
bool isHtmxRequest = ViewContext.Htmx.Request.IsHtmx;
```

## IsBoosted

Checks whether the current request was initiated via an element using `hx-boost`.

**Example**

```csharp
bool isBoosted = ViewContext.Htmx.Request.IsBoosted;
```

## IsHistoryRestore

Identifies if the request is an HTMX history restore request.

**Example**

```csharp
bool isHistoryRestore = ViewContext.Htmx.Request.IsHistoryRestore;
```

## CurrentURL

Gets the current URL from the browser as triggered by the HTMX request.

**Example**

```csharp
Uri? currentUrl = ViewContext.Htmx.Request.CurrentURL;
```

## Target

Retrieves the `id` of the target element from the HTMX request if it exists.

**Example**

```csharp
string? targetId = ViewContext.Htmx.Request.Target;
```

## TriggerName

Obtains the `name` of the element that triggered the HTMX request if available.

**Example**

```csharp
string? triggerName = ViewContext.Htmx.Request.TriggerName;
```

## Trigger

Gets the `id` of the element that initiated the HTMX request if present.

**Example**

```csharp
string? triggerId = ViewContext.Htmx.Request.Trigger;
```

## Prompt

Retrieves the user response to an `hx-prompt` from the HTMX request, if any.

**Example**

```csharp
string? promptResponse = ViewContext.Htmx.Request.Prompt;
```
