content/docs/htmx/response.md, before:

---
title: "Response"
description: ""
summary: ""
date: 2024-02-05T12:10:35-05:00
lastmod: 2024-02-05T12:10:35-05:00
draft: false
menu:
  docs:
    parent: ""
    identifier: "response-62ebe8c1dcbe3a08e7cf1a03c3fff9ab"
weight: 300
toc: true
seo:
  title: "" # custom title (optional)
  description: "" # custom description (recommended)
  canonical: "" # custom canonical URL (optional)
  noindex: false # false (default) or true
---
The `HtmxResponse` class enables developers to manage client-side behavior through response headers in applications that leverage HTMX. This includes navigating, refreshing, and updating parts of the web page without a full reload, as well as triggering client-side events.

{{< callout context="note" title="Note" icon="info-circle" >}}
The HtmxResponse class was constructed based on HTMX usage of Reresponse headers.  You can find more information about HTMX response headers on the official [Htmx documentation site](https://htmx.org/reference/#response_headers).
{{< /callout >}}

## Location

Performs a client-side redirect to the specified path without a full page reload, leveraging HTMX's ability to handle AJAX navigation seamlessly.

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.Location("/new-path");
```
This method is particularly useful for implementing SPA-like behavior in traditional server-rendered applications, allowing for partial updates and navigation without losing the state of the application.

## PushUrl

Pushes a new URL onto the browser's history stack. This method leverages HTMX's support for AJAX-driven navigation while maintaining correct browser history and bookmarkable URLs.

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.PushUrl("/another-path");
```
Use this method to dynamically update the URL in response to partial content updates, ensuring that users can use the browser's back and forward buttons as expected.

## PreventBrowserHistoryUpdate

Ensures that the browser's history is not updated following an AJAX request, overriding any previous PushUrl action. This is useful in scenarios where updates should not affect the browser's history, such as filtering or sorting operations on a page.

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.PreventBrowserHistoryUpdate();
```

## PreventBrowserCurrentUrlUpdate

Stops the browser’s current URL from being updated.

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.PreventBrowserCurrentUrlUpdate();
```

## Redirect

Facilitates a client-side redirection, akin to a traditional HTTP redirect but executed via HTMX, allowing for a smoother user experience without a full page refresh.

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.Redirect("/redirect-path");
```

This method is useful for redirecting the user after actions that do not require a full page reload, such as form submissions or after performing AJAX-based operations.

## Refresh

Triggers a full page refresh from the server-side. This can be particularly beneficial after a sequence of operations where a fresh state from the server is required.

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.Refresh();
```

In HTMX, a full page refresh might be necessary in scenarios where client-side state needs to be completely reset, or when significant changes have been made that require a fresh page load.

## ReplaceUrl

Updates the current URL in the browser's location bar.

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.ReplaceUrl("/new-url");
```

## Reswap

Specifies how the response will be swapped into the target element. This allows for fine-grained control over how parts of the page are updated with server responses.  

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.Reswap(SwapStyle.InnerHTML);
```

### SwapStyle Options

Here are the `SwapStyle` options that define how the response is swapped into the target element on the page:

- `InnerHTML`: Replace the inner HTML of the target element.
- `OuterHTML`: Replace the entire target element with the response.
- `BeforeBegin`: Insert the response before the target element.
- `AfterBegin`: Insert the response inside the target element, before its first child.
- `BeforeEnd`: Insert the response inside the target element, after its last child.
- `AfterEnd`: Insert the response after the target element.
- `Delete`: Deletes the target element, regardless of the response.
- `None`: Does not append content from the response (though out-of-band items will still be processed).

Refer to these options when using the `Reswap` method to specify how content is swapped on the page. 


## Retarget

Changes the target element for the response update using a CSS selector.

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.Retarget("#new-target");
```

## Reselect

Determines which part of the response is swapped in, using a CSS selector.

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.Reselect(".content-part");
```

## Trigger

Initiates custom events on the client side, which can be used to trigger JavaScript actions in response to server-side events. This method makes use of HTMX's ability to interact with custom JavaScript by triggering events based on server responses.

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.Trigger("customEvent", new { key = "value" }, TriggerTiming.AfterSwap);
```

This functionality is particularly useful for integrating server-side logic with client-side behaviors, allowing developers to create rich, interactive web applications that respond dynamically to server-side changes.

### TriggerTiming Options

Understanding the timing for triggering client-side events is also crucial:

- `Default`: Trigger events as soon as the response is received.
- `AfterSettle`: Trigger events after the settling step, which includes processing scripts and styles.
- `AfterSwap`: Trigger events after the swap step, ensuring the DOM has been updated.

These options can be used with the `Trigger` method to control when events are fired in response to HTMX actions.

Commit message:

docs: Expand HtmxRequest and HtmxResponse sections
Added detailed instructions on how to work with `HtmxRequest` and `HtmxResponse` classes in the documentation. This includes creating new instances, accessing them through the `RzViewContext` service, and using them within a controller.

style: Update hugo_stats.json

Updated HTML tags and class names in hugo_stats.json for better tracking of used elements and styles. Added new examples, removed unused ones, and included additional headers for improved organization.

content/docs/htmx/response.md, after:

---
title: "Response"
description: ""
summary: ""
date: 2024-02-05T12:10:35-05:00
lastmod: 2024-02-05T12:10:35-05:00
draft: false
menu:
  docs:
    parent: ""
    identifier: "response-62ebe8c1dcbe3a08e7cf1a03c3fff9ab"
weight: 300
toc: true
seo:
  title: "" # custom title (optional)
  description: "" # custom description (recommended)
  canonical: "" # custom canonical URL (optional)
  noindex: false # false (default) or true
---
The `HtmxResponse` class enables developers to manage client-side behavior through response headers in applications that leverage HTMX. This includes navigating, refreshing, and updating parts of the web page without a full reload, as well as triggering client-side events.

{{< callout context="note" title="Note" icon="info-circle" >}}
The HtmxResponse class was constructed based on HTMX usage of Response headers.  You can find more information about HTMX response headers on the official [Htmx documentation site](https://htmx.org/reference/#response_headers).
{{< /callout >}}

## Working With HtmxResponse

`HtmxResponse` only has a dependency on HttpContext, so you can use it in any scoped dependency service that has access to HttpContext.  To manually create an HtmxResponse object you need only to create a new instance of the class as follows:

```csharp
var response = new HtmxResponse(httpContext);
```

For the purposes of the examples in this guide, we will be using an instance of HtmxResponse that is available within the `RzViewContext` service. The `RzViewContext` service is injected into any RzController instance and is made available as the ViewContext property.  The ViewContext is also available as both a cascaded parameter to any View rendered from the controller.

The `HtmxResponse` object is accessible from the controller property:

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response
```

All of the proceeding examples will reflect usage of the ViewContext approach.

## Location

Performs a client-side redirect to the specified path without a full page reload, leveraging HTMX's ability to handle AJAX navigation seamlessly.

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.Location("/new-path");
```
This method is particularly useful for implementing SPA-like behavior in traditional server-rendered applications, allowing for partial updates and navigation without losing the state of the application.

## PushUrl

Pushes a new URL onto the browser's history stack. This method leverages HTMX's support for AJAX-driven navigation while maintaining correct browser history and bookmarkable URLs.

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.PushUrl("/another-path");
```
Use this method to dynamically update the URL in response to partial content updates, ensuring that users can use the browser's back and forward buttons as expected.

## PreventBrowserHistoryUpdate

Ensures that the browser's history is not updated following an AJAX request, overriding any previous PushUrl action. This is useful in scenarios where updates should not affect the browser's history, such as filtering or sorting operations on a page.

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.PreventBrowserHistoryUpdate();
```

## PreventBrowserCurrentUrlUpdate

Stops the browser’s current URL from being updated.

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.PreventBrowserCurrentUrlUpdate();
```

## Redirect

Facilitates a client-side redirection, akin to a traditional HTTP redirect but executed via HTMX, allowing for a smoother user experience without a full page refresh.

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.Redirect("/redirect-path");
```

This method is useful for redirecting the user after actions that do not require a full page reload, such as form submissions or after performing AJAX-based operations.

## Refresh

Triggers a full page refresh from the server-side. This can be particularly beneficial after a sequence of operations where a fresh state from the server is required.

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.Refresh();
```

In HTMX, a full page refresh might be necessary in scenarios where client-side state needs to be completely reset, or when significant changes have been made that require a fresh page load.

## ReplaceUrl

Updates the current URL in the browser's location bar.

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.ReplaceUrl("/new-url");
```

## Reswap

Specifies how the response will be swapped into the target element. This allows for fine-grained control over how parts of the page are updated with server responses.  

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.Reswap(SwapStyle.InnerHTML);
```

### SwapStyle Options

Here are the `SwapStyle` options that define how the response is swapped into the target element on the page:

- `InnerHTML`: Replace the inner HTML of the target element.
- `OuterHTML`: Replace the entire target element with the response.
- `BeforeBegin`: Insert the response before the target element.
- `AfterBegin`: Insert the response inside the target element, before its first child.
- `BeforeEnd`: Insert the response inside the target element, after its last child.
- `AfterEnd`: Insert the response after the target element.
- `Delete`: Deletes the target element, regardless of the response.
- `None`: Does not append content from the response (though out-of-band items will still be processed).

Refer to these options when using the `Reswap` method to specify how content is swapped on the page. 


## Retarget

Changes the target element for the response update using a CSS selector.

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.Retarget("#new-target");
```

## Reselect

Determines which part of the response is swapped in, using a CSS selector.

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.Reselect(".content-part");
```

## Trigger

Initiates custom events on the client side, which can be used to trigger JavaScript actions in response to server-side events. This method makes use of HTMX's ability to interact with custom JavaScript by triggering events based on server responses.

*Example*

```csharp
ViewContext.Htmx.Response.Trigger("customEvent", new { key = "value" }, TriggerTiming.AfterSwap);
```

This functionality is particularly useful for integrating server-side logic with client-side behaviors, allowing developers to create rich, interactive web applications that respond dynamically to server-side changes.

### TriggerTiming Options

Understanding the timing for triggering client-side events is also crucial:

- `Default`: Trigger events as soon as the response is received.
- `AfterSettle`: Trigger events after the settling step, which includes processing scripts and styles.
- `AfterSwap`: Trigger events after the swap step, ensuring the DOM has been updated.

These options can be used with the `Trigger` method to control when events are fired in response to HTMX actions.
