content/docs/introduction/contentsecurity.md, before:

---

title: "Content Security Policy"
description: ""
summary: ""
date: 2025-01-16T12:51:13-05:00
lastmod: 2025-01-16T12:51:13-05:00
draft: false
weight: 999
toc: true
seo:
  title: "" # custom title (optional)
  description: "" # custom description (recommended)
  canonical: "" # custom canonical URL (optional)
  noindex: false # false (default) or true
---

This document provides a brief overview of CSP, the use of nonces for securing inline scripts, styles, and other content, and how to use the `IRizzyNonceProvider` for nonce management.

## What is CSP?

A Content Security Policy (CSP) is a security mechanism that helps prevent cross-site scripting (XSS) and other code injection attacks by restricting the sources from which content (e.g., scripts, styles, images) can be loaded. A typical CSP might look like this:

```html
<meta http-equiv="Content-Security-Policy" content="default-src 'self'; base-uri 'self'; script-src 'self' 'nonce-<REPLACE_WITH_ONE_TIME_USE_RANDOM_STRING>'; style-src 'self' 'nonce-<REPLACE_WITH_ONE_TIME_USE_RANDOM_STRING>';" />
```

## Using Nonces with Inline Content

Nonces (numbers used once) allow inline content to execute when its nonce matches the value specified in the CSP header. The general workflow is:

1. **Generate Nonces:** Secure, random nonce values are created.
2. **Inject Nonces:** Nonce values are applied as attributes to inline `<script>`, `<style>`, or other elements.
3. **CSP Enforcement:** The server sends a CSP header or meta tag that includes these nonce values, and only inline content tagged with the correct nonce is executed.

## Generating and Validating Nonces with Rizzy

Rizzy provides an interface, `IRizzyNonceProvider`, for generating nonce values. The provider uses a cryptographically secure HMAC key to generate and validate nonce tokens. An HMAC key must be provided during application startup or can be generated automatically.

### IRizzyNonceProvider

| Member                     | Type               | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|----------------------------|--------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **GetNonceValues()**       | `RizzyNonceValues` | Retrieves all nonce values for the current HTTP request. If they have not been generated for this request, new nonce values are generated, cached, and returned.                                                             |
| **GetNonceFor(NonceType)** | `string`           | Retrieves (or generates) the nonce value for a given nonce type. For example, `GetNonceFor(NonceType.Script)` returns the nonce used in inline script elements.                                                                |

### NonceType Enumeration

The `NonceType` enumeration defines the supported types of nonce values. These are used to specify the nonce for various content types in the CSP and inline elements.

| Enum Value | Description                                                       |
|------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Script** | Nonce for inline `<script>` tags.                                 |
| **Style**  | Nonce for inline `<style>` tags.                                  |
| **Font**   | Nonce for font requests.                                          |
| **Image**  | Nonce for image elements.                                         |
| **Connect**| Nonce for connect requests (e.g., WebSocket connections, AJAX).     |

## HMAC Key Configuration

Nonces require an HMAC key for generation and validation. Configure the key on application startup (the key must be a Base64-encoded string at least 256 bits in length):

```csharp
builder.AddRizzy(config =>
{
    config.NonceHMACKey = "Your_Base64_Encoded_HMAC_Key";
});
```

For distributed environments, ensure that all instances share the same HMAC key. Otherwise, the key can be generated automatically during startup.

### Generating a Secure HMAC Key

Below is an example of generating a secure Base64-encoded HMAC key:

```csharp
/// <summary>
/// Generates a secure HMAC key using a cryptographically secure random number generator.
/// </summary>
/// <param name="keySizeInBytes">Size of the key in bytes (e.g., 32 for 256-bit).</param>
/// <returns>Base64-encoded HMAC key.</returns>
private byte[] GenerateSecureHmacKey(int keySizeInBytes = 32)
{
    byte[] key = new byte[keySizeInBytes];
    RandomNumberGenerator.Fill(key);
    return key;
}

private string GetBase64Key() => Convert.ToBase64String(GenerateSecureHmacKey());
```

## Usage in a Blazor Application (App.razor)

Below is a simplified example of using the nonce values in a Blazor component. Nonce values are injected into the CSP meta tag and applied to inline script and stylesheet links using the `GetNonceFor(NonceType.X)` methods.

```razor
@using Rizzy.Nonce

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Security-Policy" 
          content="default-src 'self'; 
                   connect-src 'self' localhost:* http://localhost:* ws://localhost:* wss://localhost:*; 
                   script-src 'self' 'nonce-@NonceProvider.GetNonceFor(NonceType.Script)'; 
                   style-src 'self' 'nonce-@NonceProvider.GetNonceFor(NonceType.Style)';">
    <!-- Link to stylesheets with nonce attributes -->
    <link nonce="@NonceProvider.GetNonceFor(NonceType.Style)" rel="stylesheet" href="/css/app.css" />

    <HeadOutlet />

    <!-- Link to scripts with nonce attributes -->
    <script defer nonce="@NonceProvider.GetNonceFor(NonceType.Script)" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@@alpinejs/csp@3.x.x/dist/cdn.min.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
    <Routes />
</body>
</html>

@code {
    [Inject] private IRizzyNonceProvider NonceProvider { get; set; } = null!;
}
```

## Summary

- **CSP:** Enforces permitted sources for content. Nonces ensure that only inline content with the correct one-time value is executed.
- **Nonce Generation:** Nonces are generated using secure random bytes combined with an HMAC signature. An HMAC key is required for this process.
- **IRizzyNonceProvider:** Provides nonce values for the current request; use `GetNonceFor(NonceType.X)` to retrieve a specific nonce.
- **NonceType Enumeration:** Defines supported nonce types—Script, Style, Font, Image, and Connect.
- **HMAC Key:** Must be configured (or generated) and shared in distributed environments.

This implementation secures web applications by ensuring that only inline elements with validated, type-specific nonces are executed, thereby reducing the risk of XSS attacks.

Commit message:

docs: Update HMAC key generation instructions
Updated the documentation for `IRizzyNonceProvider` to clarify that an HMAC key can be automatically generated. This change emphasizes that users do not need to provide a NonceHMACKey configuration value if they prefer automatic key generation.

content/docs/introduction/contentsecurity.md, after:

---

title: "Content Security Policy"
description: ""
summary: ""
date: 2025-01-16T12:51:13-05:00
lastmod: 2025-01-16T12:51:13-05:00
draft: false
weight: 999
toc: true
seo:
  title: "" # custom title (optional)
  description: "" # custom description (recommended)
  canonical: "" # custom canonical URL (optional)
  noindex: false # false (default) or true
---

This document provides a brief overview of CSP, the use of nonces for securing inline scripts, styles, and other content, and how to use the `IRizzyNonceProvider` for nonce management.

## What is CSP?

A Content Security Policy (CSP) is a security mechanism that helps prevent cross-site scripting (XSS) and other code injection attacks by restricting the sources from which content (e.g., scripts, styles, images) can be loaded. A typical CSP might look like this:

```html
<meta http-equiv="Content-Security-Policy" content="default-src 'self'; base-uri 'self'; script-src 'self' 'nonce-<REPLACE_WITH_ONE_TIME_USE_RANDOM_STRING>'; style-src 'self' 'nonce-<REPLACE_WITH_ONE_TIME_USE_RANDOM_STRING>';" />
```

## Using Nonces with Inline Content

Nonces (numbers used once) allow inline content to execute when its nonce matches the value specified in the CSP header. The general workflow is:

1. **Generate Nonces:** Secure, random nonce values are created.
2. **Inject Nonces:** Nonce values are applied as attributes to inline `<script>`, `<style>`, or other elements.
3. **CSP Enforcement:** The server sends a CSP header or meta tag that includes these nonce values, and only inline content tagged with the correct nonce is executed.

## Generating and Validating Nonces with Rizzy

Rizzy provides an interface, `IRizzyNonceProvider`, for generating nonce values. The provider uses a cryptographically secure HMAC key to generate and validate nonce tokens. An HMAC key must be provided during application startup or can be generated automatically for you. You do not need to provide a NonceHMACKey configuration value if you want to have the key generated automatically.

### IRizzyNonceProvider

| Member                     | Type               | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                      |
|----------------------------|--------------------|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **GetNonceValues()**       | `RizzyNonceValues` | Retrieves all nonce values for the current HTTP request. If they have not been generated for this request, new nonce values are generated, cached, and returned.                                                             |
| **GetNonceFor(NonceType)** | `string`           | Retrieves (or generates) the nonce value for a given nonce type. For example, `GetNonceFor(NonceType.Script)` returns the nonce used in inline script elements.                                                                |

### NonceType Enumeration

The `NonceType` enumeration defines the supported types of nonce values. These are used to specify the nonce for various content types in the CSP and inline elements.

| Enum Value | Description                                                       |
|------------|-------------------------------------------------------------------|
| **Script** | Nonce for inline `<script>` tags.                                 |
| **Style**  | Nonce for inline `<style>` tags.                                  |
| **Font**   | Nonce for font requests.                                          |
| **Image**  | Nonce for image elements.                                         |
| **Connect**| Nonce for connect requests (e.g., WebSocket connections, AJAX).     |

## HMAC Key Configuration

Nonces require an HMAC key for generation and validation. Configure the key on application startup (the key must be a Base64-encoded string at least 256 bits in length):

```csharp
builder.AddRizzy(config =>
{
    config.NonceHMACKey = "Your_Base64_Encoded_HMAC_Key";
});
```

For distributed environments, ensure that all instances share the same HMAC key. Otherwise, the key can be generated automatically during startup. You do not need to provide a NonceHMACKey configuration value if you want to have the key generated automatically by Rizzy.

### Generating a Secure HMAC Key

Below is an example of generating a secure Base64-encoded HMAC key:

```csharp
/// <summary>
/// Generates a secure HMAC key using a cryptographically secure random number generator.
/// </summary>
/// <param name="keySizeInBytes">Size of the key in bytes (e.g., 32 for 256-bit).</param>
/// <returns>Base64-encoded HMAC key.</returns>
private byte[] GenerateSecureHmacKey(int keySizeInBytes = 32)
{
    byte[] key = new byte[keySizeInBytes];
    RandomNumberGenerator.Fill(key);
    return key;
}

private string GetBase64Key() => Convert.ToBase64String(GenerateSecureHmacKey());
```

## Usage in a Blazor Application (App.razor)

Below is a simplified example of using the nonce values in a Blazor component. Nonce values are injected into the CSP meta tag and applied to inline script and stylesheet links using the `GetNonceFor(NonceType.X)` methods.

```razor
@using Rizzy.Nonce

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html lang="en">
<head>
    <meta charset="utf-8" />
    <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Security-Policy" 
          content="default-src 'self'; 
                   connect-src 'self' localhost:* http://localhost:* ws://localhost:* wss://localhost:*; 
                   script-src 'self' 'nonce-@NonceProvider.GetNonceFor(NonceType.Script)'; 
                   style-src 'self' 'nonce-@NonceProvider.GetNonceFor(NonceType.Style)';">
    <!-- Link to stylesheets with nonce attributes -->
    <link nonce="@NonceProvider.GetNonceFor(NonceType.Style)" rel="stylesheet" href="/css/app.css" />

    <HeadOutlet />

    <!-- Link to scripts with nonce attributes -->
    <script defer nonce="@NonceProvider.GetNonceFor(NonceType.Script)" src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/@@alpinejs/csp@3.x.x/dist/cdn.min.js"></script>
</head>
<body>
    <Routes />
</body>
</html>

@code {
    [Inject] private IRizzyNonceProvider NonceProvider { get; set; } = null!;
}
```

## Summary

- **CSP:** Enforces permitted sources for content. Nonces ensure that only inline content with the correct one-time value is executed.
- **Nonce Generation:** Nonces are generated using secure random bytes combined with an HMAC signature. An HMAC key is required for this process.
- **IRizzyNonceProvider:** Provides nonce values for the current request; use `GetNonceFor(NonceType.X)` to retrieve a specific nonce.
- **NonceType Enumeration:** Defines supported nonce types—Script, Style, Font, Image, and Connect.
- **HMAC Key:** Must be configured (or generated) and shared in distributed environments.

This implementation secures web applications by ensuring that only inline elements with validated, type-specific nonces are executed, thereby reducing the risk of XSS attacks.
