content/docs/introduction/overview.md, before:

---
title: "Overview"
description: ""
summary: ""
date: 2024-02-05T12:06:30-05:00
lastmod: 2024-02-05T12:06:30-05:00
draft: false
menu:
  docs:
    parent: ""
    identifier: "overview-d93d15301c0c12c7496db4ce3d157080"
weight: 10
toc: true
seo:
  title: "" # custom title (optional)
  description: "" # custom description (recommended)
  canonical: "" # custom canonical URL (optional)
  noindex: false # false (default) or true
---

Rizzy is a lightweight library that enhances Asp.net MVC applications by seamlessly integrating Razor components for UI development and working with HTMX for progressive enhancement. With Rizzy, you can leverage the power of composable Razor components to create dynamic and interactive user interfaces while ensuring a smooth user experience through HTMX.

## Why Asp.net MVC?

Asp.net MVC is a very mature and stable platform. Leveraging Asp.net MVC with Razor Components and HTMX creates a highly efficient and modern web development stack for several reasons:

1. **Performance**: Combining server-side Razor Components with client-side updates via HTMX enhances app speed and responsiveness.
2. **Development Efficiency**: The modularity of Razor Components and MVC's architecture simplifies building and maintaining complex applications.
3. **Integration**: HTMX complements this stack by enabling dynamic HTML updates without extensive JavaScript, fitting seamlessly with Razor Components for interactive UIs.
4. **Rich Ecosystem**: .NET's comprehensive tooling and libraries streamline development, debugging, and testing processes.
5. **Security**: Built-in protections against common web threats ensure the development of secure applications compliant with web standards.

This stack offers a balanced approach to web development, merging server-side stability with client-side interactivity, all while maintaining a focus on security and developer productivity.

## Features

- **Razor Component Integration**: Easily use Razor components within your Asp.net MVC views, enhancing the modularity and maintainability of your UI code.

- **HTMX Compatibility**: Rizzy works effortlessly with HTMX, enabling progressive enhancement for your MVC applications. Make your web pages dynamic and interactive without compromising on performance.

- **Simplified Syntax**: Rizzy simplifies the integration process, allowing developers to seamlessly blend Razor components and HTMX features into their existing MVC projects.

- **Efficient Development**: Leverage the benefits of Razor Components for efficient and structured UI development, resulting in more maintainable and scalable applications.

Commit message:

docs: update blog and documentation content
Added images to enhance visual appeal in blog post and introduction overview. Simplified language for better readability in the goals and overview sections of the documentation. Removed redundant features section from the overview page, as it was repetitive with other parts of the documentation.

content/docs/introduction/overview.md, after:

---
title: "Overview"
description: ""
summary: ""
date: 2024-02-05T12:06:30-05:00
lastmod: 2024-02-05T12:06:30-05:00
draft: false
menu:
  docs:
    parent: ""
    identifier: "overview-d93d15301c0c12c7496db4ce3d157080"
weight: 10
toc: true
seo:
  title: "" # custom title (optional)
  description: "" # custom description (recommended)
  canonical: "" # custom canonical URL (optional)
  noindex: false # false (default) or true
---

Rizzy is a lightweight library that enhances Asp.net MVC applications by seamlessly integrating Razor components for UI development and working with HTMX for progressive enhancement. With Rizzy, you can leverage the power of composable Razor components to create dynamic and interactive user interfaces while ensuring a smooth user experience through HTMX.

<img src="/images/developer1.webp" class="img-fluid">

## Why Asp.net MVC?

Asp.net MVC is a very mature and stable platform. Combining Asp.net MVC with Razor Components and HTMX can form the foundation of a modern web development stack:

1. **Performance**: Combining server-side Razor Components with client-side updates via HTMX enhances app speed and responsiveness.
2. **Development Efficiency**: The modularity of Razor Components simplify building and maintaining complex applications.
3. **Integration**: HTMX complements this stack by enabling dynamic HTML updates without extensive JavaScript
4. **Rich Ecosystem**: .NET's comprehensive tooling and libraries streamline development, debugging, and testing processes.
5. **Security**: Built-in protections against common web threats ensure the development of secure applications compliant with web standards.

This stack offers a balanced approach to web development, merging server-side stability with client-side interactivity.
